(Bembo, I don't think we need this page here. Upstarts is a better into page. That is done.)(Katalin -- we shall talk; my experience says that any number of Intros help.  Give people differing approaches so they can triangulate what they think they are reading. Again, the intro is usually the last thing written; Let's just keep moving stuff here /or 'upstarts' which is more of a bad joke than a clear topic.  Kettle has boiled.)


The unMonastery    -    a  Social Installation  

a layered intro to unMon, ER, MA 2019


"The recipe is elegant.  Skilled but critical human citizens turn their back on the inhuman marketplace to move into surplus public real estate at the outer edge of the modern experiment.  Together they recreate almost forgotten life rhythms and devise meaningful work projects. 

 They are not here to thrash out miracles, but can inadvertently find themselves bestowing their blessings upon those who mirror similar values.  This installation of committed workers into a local community where hope and vision may be suffering, can act as a catalyst.  Alliances will be formed; spin-off can be anticipated..."((a scribe's notebook under the bold title: **Occupy Real Work**  ))


"Monasteries have a longer tradition than is immediately comfortable.  Historically they honour the outcast.  It times of need they represent a treasure of knowledge and continuity.  They exert strict discipline upon their contributors.  Inside their walls visitors may renew their most valuable connections with humanity.

To host an ER UnMonastery may be dangerous.  We will offer refuge to your questioning youth; we will seek to model a mode of life that demands more of our inner selves than the modern civilization outside our walls...
((post-LOTE#2  7.12.2012  http://piratepad.net/uGaAJAWLbC))

a intro to the Book
The Writer's Block
((excerpt form e-mail BD-> Arthur Doohan
//My contribution is this running blog: given that I've spent 30 years succumbing daily to the humility of living in my second language and that I ruined my neurological pathways by a youth spent playing injudicious amounts of Shakespeare, I have to write it as I do.  Given that you are perhaps one of the few members of our family with a genetic disposition to a literary bent; I felt I should make sure that I run them by you.  Of course they aren't the universal key to communication the unMo lifestyle; aspects of my verbosity may leave say ultra-gregarious Swedes or conscientious Italians in their vake.  But you dear Sir are my primary market...//))