====4 letters:====

1)  EXCEPTIONALLY FRUITFUL MEETING IN MATERA
- get there by all means
Recruited somewhat late in the Launch Meeting process, I probably arrived having less of a notion as to what to expect this weekend than anyone else on the team.  Let us adopt the point of view that this was useful…. Despite the fact that I’m not always an unbridled enthusiast of the public gathering, ours was unusually constructive.  

The launch was not the feared long-winded cutting of a ribbon featuring endless toasts with increasingly power-sapping vino.  It was something very much more potent: a strategically recruited constellation of citizens with a common will to realise their dreams for their community.  Judging by the tangible energy generated by the mapping process, they have every chance of succeeding…

If I try to recall my assumptions as to what I suspected would become the imposition of the greatest hits of a collective Edgeryder vision upon a rather unsuspecting community, our proposal seemed admittedly fragile beforehand.  The revelation during this meeting was that which I imagined would operate as an isolated hacker embassy spouting foreign ideas, is far from an action of imperialism or evangelism.
We won’t be walking into endless confrontations with non-comprehending locals.

Instead, my worse case scenario has been radically altered.  After the exposure to some 40 or so concerned, active voices, who sacrificed the first Saturday of spring to be put through the paces by Ben and the formidable Gaia via what can sometimes become a rather flimsy mapping procedure, it is clear that a sufficiently diverse group of people are primed, hungry and engaged in making our presence a vital catalyst.  The imported Edgeryders will not be fighting for attention, we will be quickly coming in contact with a vibrant group of people eager to run with whatever relevant stimulus they may derive from our presence.  Much could indeed be managed without us. If however you are at all flexible during the period we shall be in residence; I urge all Edgeryders to perform a pilgrimage to this truly inspiring community.

2)   STILL POKING AROUND THE STREETS
A chance meeting with (MA2019 Project Leader) Rosella got me dragged into her sister’s artwork renovation atelier for a tea.  After viewing the restoration techniques, we had fun proposing the idea of cyclical projected patina upon major restored artworks to satisfy the nostalgia fanatics like me who insist that restoration should by and large stop at stabilising or retarding damage, and that the tear of time should be visible.

We then discussed the unMo workshop  —  why was it so valuable?
The following emerged: most workshops are about the me — often they even get called self-development workshops — this one was most clearly about the We…

Another lesson of the gathering was the clear sensation that we need to introduce a fourth column of project proposals to add to the understanding that they could be concerned with //in-house, interface or out-reach// objectives — it became obvious that the community drive to make use of our presence is so focused that some projects will inevitable be //implanted//.  The call to the community might be to devise projects and invite selected guests to become imbedded among us…

Next step for me: invited guest instructor at two Monday night drama classes.  The best way to work…

3)  WARNING: EDGERYDERS — WARNING: MATERA
— WARNING: unMONASTERY
Thanks Mattias,
Your letter gives me an ideal opening for my second message from Matera.  (Oooops airport fog sets in , it’s the third and I’ll be repeating myself a little bit… apologies.)

I want to unmask my own preconceptions as to where I was heading out for.  These are clearly reflected in the suggestion now embedded in the unMO call for project proposals.  Having emerged from the two LOTEs juggling a short list of five imminently brilliant and pursuable ideas, I found it useful to devise a framework in which to classify them.  On one of the Sunday afternoon web telephone meet-ups, I proposed that our project proposals be classified as:  in-house / interface / outreach.  Hidden in this premise was the impression that we would be starting at subsistence level among an, at best, neutral host community that would ignore us if they could.

This was a defensive position, perhaps understandable, but far from reality.  Blinded by the bad PR given troglodyte cave-persons by a globalised popular culture, it was hard to surmise that the opposite is closer to the truth.  It should be no surprise that a city with a 9000 year old history supports layers of civilized human interaction that might put the cultural environment in say, Bergen, the merely 1000 year old city in which I live, to shame.

This immediately became apparent during our formal informal launch workshop last weekend.  Something unspecific about the quality of attention in the room, had me already noting down the following in my journal half way through the introductory presentation:
 … I have been jumping up and down saying that proposing projects before we are surrounded by reality, is bad development politics… dreams are useful, but they are dreams — We from the outside have been thinking about parachuting ideas upon Matera.  Even when we know that we shouldn’t do this, such thoughts are all we have…  (the rant continued)

By the time the slide proposing the in-house/ interface/outreach model came up, I was interrupting Gaia’s presentation with an engaged voice from the back of the hall.   Publicly taking responsibility for the exclusion, I suggested a fourth category based upon my reading of the  palpable concern in the room:  that if we were to be truly responsive to our hosts, much of our work should be based upon injected, installed or invited projects that had their base in commissions from the community at large.  I’d suggest that this is a lot closer to the way things are going to be working.

At least, that’s how things have evolved for a chronic project person such as myself.  Hence my warning to all you Project-monkeys:  be prepared for a life complex.  After four days in Matera, I gained an additional two projects to be constructed with new friends …  Which one goes first?

==4)  Reality Check – the physical plant and the budget  (april ’13)==

This is my third letter after the inspirational March meeting in Matera.  Penned on my way homeward, it is different to the first two which sought consciously to communicate the infectious promise presented by meeting the locals.   It occurred to me that several people might also appreciate knowing that, surprisingly, not all our structural problems have miraculously solved themselves…

…Solving another problem is, however, more pressing.  As was so eloquently pointed out by Matera born and bred architect, Antonio Acito during a private guided tour of his office/home dwelling perched at the prow of the town: if you were to expand upwards in extended magnificence, the Lego blocks had to come from somewhere.  For each positive protuberance, you would build a shadow space, excavating deeper into the mountain, creating an ‘invisible city’ perfect for temperating wine.

The ERunMo is not being offered a traditional ruin to refurbish from scratch – rather the opposite, a potentially luxurious ridiculous labyrinth of 6-8 traditional dwellings that have been internally united and renovated into perfectly acceptable standard, double-glazed working quarters, anno 2006.  However, our chosen string of buildings are, while idyllically placed with a view sweeping over the river valley, of humble origin; living in a wine cellar is not automatically conducive to long days perched over a laptop.  The caves which offer delightful respite during the heat of the summer, are reportedly a health hazard during the long winter months.  The key is humidity control that, until the ingenious appropriate technology is introduced, remains the bane of the Materians’ existence.  I suspect that spoilt-rotten modern urbanites such as myself will have a hard time adjusting the upper reaches of our respiratory tracts to this new reality.
A blessing may be that, once heated, limestone caves may hold their heat well.

However, without a viable solution to the interior climate, I suspect that we’ll suffer a higher than desirable turnover; with the appropriate technology in place, we can evolve a strategic pattern of day and night use, of heated meditative and collective space.  Fortunately, solving the practical problem of the space needn’t be a prolonged ordeal of trial and error.  Considerable local knowledge is readily available – already at the March launch-workshop a sub-committee of four architects was created to kit out the space.
(Although it was unclear to me whether this committee out-kitting was both to spatially establish walls and appropriate functional areas, and/or with some kind of furniture?   – please note: elegant Italian design permeates the region; abandoned factories that during the pre-IKEA epoch churned out Italian modern sofas and lampshades are everywhere.  This is by no means a scruffy backwater.)

—–