THE unMONASTERY   :      Getting started
In the beginning there was the Office of Social Cohesion Research – Early Warning division.  O SCREW (I’m not making this up) begat Edgeryders; Edgeryders begat Living on the Edge (LOTE); LOTE begat the unMonastery…

Since applying the tools of the theatre to human gatherings promoting social cohesion is a primary strategy of the Institute of Non-toxic Propaganda, it is not surprising that I find myself with an undefined role on the unMonastery central committee.  Our initial incarnation is in the regional capital of Matera in the province of Basilicata, in the very south of Italy.  The first installment of inhabitants is scheduled for February 2014; there is a preparatory gathering of the Edgeryder clan at the end of October 2013.
Work remains to be done…

Most of our communication goes on online.  It tends to spread.
I haven’t done well with the sprawl; some of what I feel as my key contributions has ended up stuffed up a virtual dead-end on the outer reaches of the many circulating web-solutions. In order to provide a coherent thrust of the Non-toxic argument, I’m gathering my individual contributions here.  (Not being a saint, and not yet even dead, this is an atrocious act for a member of a collective to indulge in; this may be so.  In penance, I promise to spend equal time on my online Italian lessons as I do on gathering these bits and pieces into one place.)  Being just my personal contribution, they reflect the character of the gnarled curmudgeonous hermit grandfather monk repeatedly being disturbed in his cave by waves of unrefined novices.  They’d better listen…

If I have any grace, I’ll weave in other people’s contributions that specifically address the culture of the enterprise.  Yesterday’s from Alberto that bridges hacker culture and spiritual service was a pearl:

Alberto's picture
At yesterday’s call, Bembo Davies tried to make parallels between the protagonists of early monasticism and individual modern-day unMonasterians (“are you St. Francis?” “Huh…”). This prompted me to look into that particular piece of history in search for good stories and inspiration – therefore proving that you don’t need to be religious to be inspired by the lives of the saints!

I eschewed Francis (too charismatic for comfort) and zeroed in on St. Benedict, regarded by many as the founder of Western Monasticism. And sure enough, Benedict’s life and times provide plenty of good advice to anybody wishing to start or join an unMonastery. Even a cursory glance will tell you that:

- See more at: http://edgeryders.eu/comment/6022#comment-6022 
