===The Seasons of the unMo===
A quote from my notes devised in Brussels about the lore of the unMo, awoke at least a moment’s passion in the chats : “Our hard work shall be as legendary as our parties.”
I think this provides a clue to a potential MO* for the unMO. (*modus operendi.)
I propose that the unMO year be organised around a cycle of 26 annual Feasts. These shall be our first apparent service to the community. Every two weeks the unnuns and unmonks open the doors of their enterprise to invite the world in.

Each Feast Day shall have a different theme:

4 may be suggested by the heritage of Christianity: the Day of Generosity and Recycling, Carnival Days of Disorder, the Day of Denial, Day of the Dead…
four are immovable global holidays: Buddhist Mother’s Day, International Don’t Buy Anything-at-All Day’, Worker’s Day of Solidarity, Women’s Day…
each season could have its Agriculture Day of planting and harvesting and permaculture, the mid winter bath…
4 Matera specific days of the Bread stamps and the collective ovens, of each cluster of Sassi houses, of stones, and of the riverbanks of la Gravina…
4 Children’s feasts could include:  A Blessing of the Schools Parade, Storytelling Circles, Children’s Truth Day, The Child’s Parliament,…
4 feasts are for the unMo phases of evaluation: realigning our civil society, Edgeryder Day, State-in-a-Box work, adjustment of our polarities.
Four times six is twenty-four, that’s 11 months worth – it is inconceivable that two more brilliant ideas won’t rear their head.
Of course, thinking about the unMo as a cyclical society that lives on in time, flies in the face of the budget that debates: three months or six? It is not always desirable to bend for an unpalatable reality

==moments of great beauty  (august ’13)==
At the March meeting between future unMonasterians and the host community, I made my first Italian witticism.  As we rounded the room with short introductions, I hopefully presented my job description as philosof di casa —  actors know a well-won laugh when they get one.
As an opening line, it both demonstrated and encapsulated my concern with tweaking the social dramaturgy of the human gathering.   In practice, house philosopher has been my role since the unMo idea was first unveiled at LOTE#1.  Philosophers often use words – I use many words. Sometimes they do take the form of warm straight-forward jokes; sometimes they are entangled in metaphor.  I like metaphor.

The metaphor of the unMonastery is among its greatest strengths. Even before any concrete action had began, the idea of a quasi-religious order of hackers living together under stringent vows, captured the imagination and a rich flood of associations.
At LOTE#2 a small group gathered to stretch the outer limits of the metaphor to see if we could distill any useful insight.  
We emerged with The unLore… edited down to it’s greatest hits it looks like this….  (to be unearthed)

==The debate roared.  Adjustments were made.==
The possibility of establishing our prototype unMonastery in Matera
became a commitment to do so.  Calls went out for project proposals.  A key gathering was held between 5 Edgeryders and 40 some Materani in March 2013.  In the aftermath of this, I put out a trio [4?] of feedbacks in the well known, enthusiasm/ enthusiasm/ reservations model.