Upon first hearing the term unMonastery, it jarred.  It conjured up un-useful associations of closed, self-referential aesthetes that struck me as not essential to the EdgeRyder gemut.  Not wishing to be incessantly critical, I secretly harboured the thought that the imagery of an ER-embassy would be closer to our function.  Since then, I’ve mellowed…

In my work as a Non-toxic Propaganist, I often work with FiNGOs (fictive NGOs):  the trick here is that by using the tool of fiction, the leverage offered by a seemingly massive organisational model can release vast amounts of raw vision and a sense of purpose that transcends the concrete actionables of our mundane political reality.  The concept of unMonastery has emerged as such a visionary tool…

This is partially my responsibility.  Having opened my mind to the imagery of the unMo, I have (together with our other theatre man, Alex) been a major perpetrator of squeezing, twisting and digging out potential cultural relics from the traditional monastic practice that could best illuminate and give direction to the ER work.  Monks rise early for pre-dawn prayers, monks take vows of poverty, silence, and of chastity!  What becomes our equivalent?  
I call the sifting through of such questions:  Mining the Metaphor.
—-
The reality of the ongoing monastic presence in Matera is beyond any parallel cultural exposure in my life; one suspects that the per capita density of ecclesiastical homes may only have been surpassed by pre-cultural revolution Lhasa.  Our hotel, Le Monacelle, was still complete with chapel and meditative rooftop prayer cells that could literally eavesdrop upon services in the cathedral ruins below.  The Mediatec site for the launch-workshop itself was a Dominican palatial building on the main piazzo surrounded by three other monasteries.  On the horizon, at the outer promontory of the Matera plateau, was yet another monastery.  No one could supply the accurate count of church buildings in the Sassi, perhaps each of them had at least one accompanying monastery?  It seems that needs of population control in this part of the world was facilitated by stuffing superfluous young of both sexes into strict orders whose primary focus was to serve the community.  It’s a tough act to follow…

Questions remain to be thrashed out:  can I bring my dog, spouse, children, parents?  Can unMonasterians not partake in the glorious public dining practices of the town?  Is dancing with the locals verboten?   We can always import solutions from similar initiatives elsewhere, or being open, generous, and anxious not to turn anyone away from the inn, we can evolve our own mistakes…  Not having any form of collective self-government, my personal opinions on these matters are irrelevant.  However hard decisions are pending… Going in polite and democratic may prove too polite and democratic.
