====== Mining the unMonastery Metaphor ======
retread
From the moment of the first public voicing of the //unWord// at the LOTE#1 gathering, exploring the imagery of the unMonastery has been a source of joy and inspiration.  What started as perhaps a rather flimsy premise has been consistently strengthened by the latent power in the history of monastic practice.  

 At LOTE#2 a sub-group spent three days hacking //“The Lore of the unMo”//.  (provide link if it exisits) Extracting direction from our collective associative matrix, we shuffled together a collective document that generated much seductive mirth.  Much later, a brief conference call comment from Bembo sent Alberto off on a pivotal exploration into the credo of the Benedictines.  (This should be considered mandatory reading - as it traces the evolution of a decentralised anarchist movement of radical dropouts that has lasted 1200 years.)

 To continue this valuable work of metaphor mining at LOTE#3, we chose to step into the future.  In a tactical attempt to lift our visions beyond the next mealtime, we went all historical.    Under the banner of  something enticing  three groups formed to look back upon the various époques that have so influenced our unMovement the last 200 years...

  * One group examined the unMo Age of Expansion and the decisive influence of the Matera School that enabled the unMo to so negotiate successfully with an emphasis upon the first hundred years.
  * Group two examined the Times of the Great Schism and the unMon Wars through the fitful fifty years of unPleasantness.  
  * A third group sought to pinpoint where and how some 200 years ago the foundation of the unMonastery idea formed a key breakthrough moment in the history of interhuman/interspecies cooperation. 

The debate was as usual vigorous; an attempt to replicate its central threads is performed here:

Although a minority of historians claim to have unearthed evidence among archaic web logs that reveal that the legendary early delegates, to say, the Matera Meeting of 2013, were an unPrecedented bunch of tossers, the accepted wisdom is to praise them for their foresight.   Key choices to avoid the divisive extremes of visionary projection, and to hold developments to the current realities generated a robust, flexible vision.  The early unMo communities became expert at the culture of change and in harnessing the collective wisdoms of groups with an uncanny capacity absorb positive organic small scale inventions that recycled much energy into their community service.

Their work was clearly value based - not solely determined by the tasks at hand, but through an articulate shared vision that remained flexible and syncronised even when working in a decentralised, work distributed pattern.    So skilled at transforming conflict to creative friction did we become that major organisations such as the International Union of Black Sheep and the Disgruntled Young Peoples’ Alliance ( formerly unEmployed Youth of the Earth) quickly found their way to the unMo.  The total package lifestyle solution that supplied a meaningful life of dedicated service and camaraderie, rapidly became so essential to many people’s existence that the unMo practice became the cultural norm.  Once the movement reached this critical mass, it exhibited such acute flexibility as to virtually unUnmonasterise itself, providing a wide dispersement of wisdom without any signs of confining ideological dogma.

Perhaps the key development upon which the movements survival was predicated was the broad endorsement of invisible structures.  So culturally implicit in their collective decision making process did this become, that the unRule became dictated by the daily tasks and seasonal rhythms rather than any planning organ.  This new freedom quickly permeated the unMo vision of service saving considerable regulation and meeting time.

For example, since they did not seek to replicate the apartheid of the sexes, the early unMos required creative solutions to mitigate what appeared an impass.  While the less unPalatable term of the unMonasterian still circles in the literature, (Presumably so us to not to frighten the uninitiated), the choice to adopt the universal gender of the ‘unNun’ was never unWrong.  As a demarcation of a deeper commitment to tweak historic connotations, it freed us of an insidious rhetorical constraint.  Despite initial confusion, it soon became clear that, independent of individual hormonal configurations, we could all stand proudly forth and declare that: // “We are unNuns.”//

This ritual act of surrendering your gender was of course bad anthropology, most of us still identify deeply with our chromosomes.  Fraught with danger, this bold symbolic step towards redressing the wounds of the past, required  several years of contention before we acquired sufficient dis-entrenchment tools.  None of us are nuns; we can all take an equidistant step away from the subservient role historically thrust upon them.  If, during periods in our process, the work requires moving towards the traditional realm of the nun, those of both hormonal lineage could take these steps with respect.  

In time, other non-skill oriented general titles were employed.  These denoted seniority or perceptible personal engagement, and often reflected local social alliances.
 ununmo at some point ER and unMo vanished interdependence.  constantly fresh and renewed. dissolve structures at organic points
and dropped its identity absorbed by a deeper unity of purpose. so much a part of the fabric of life that it became the norm netwerk + 
not in own little corner getting rigid and patterned
unMo citizens initiatives broad spectra- asked to come as catalyst collaboration cermonies throwing off deinstitutionalisation --- this paragraph has clearly disintegrated??


The Art of the Party
====== The Book of Greater and Lesser Failures. ======

Parables of the unMon 
If the last man finished turns out the lights, I get to write the last word.  on my secret last day in Matera I finally crossed the road.  Not to the inviting Murgia, but to the neighbouring monastery that so dominates our view.  In the unverifably old sub-church that forms as an appendix to the XVIII Century  edifice that we see, my path finally crossed those of our predecessors...

How does our unWorship witness theirs?  The XVI Century social organs that erected these monuments reflected a spiritual currency.  At the top, the ecclesiastical aristocrats who dispersed it commissioned frescos left, right and centre.  beneath them staggered the waves of worker nuns and monkswho kept the operation churning.  Responsible for maintaining an atmosphere of religious fevour and aided by generous amounts of sleep deprivation and sonorial head vibration induced by all that chanting. they staggered about in a perpetual euphoric ruptus.

Our version of the unHolier than thou, while it must seek this ruptus, cannot afford to take shortcuts.

The unMonastarian journey does not take well to multitasking



The unMo
designed to mobilse the collective wisdom of the group the unMonastery is an unusual workhouse where nomadic freelancers  take up subsidised residencies in exchange for their often highly specialised skills. 





===== The Rigours of the unMonastery =====

Life in the unMonastery offers a cross between an artistic residency and a spiritual retreat.  Our progression towards one-size-fits-all //praecepta vitalia// (vital precepts) has not yet reached its conclusion; the collective journey towards this wisdom shall in itself become a source of valuable knowledge. While the constraints of establishing our Matera prototype require that these precepts evolve at an inorganic pace, drawing copiously upon both historical monastic practice and the traditions of squatters, can initially inform our life rhythms and decision making processes.   In choice of diet, interactive patterns and work load, we shall perhaps approach the model of self-development disciplines.  Only our development is of the collective self.  Aspects of our individual programming shall inevitably be dropped at the door.  Work is to be done. 

Beyond designing a re-fit for urban geeks who haven’t yet succumbed to their gluten intolerance, the unMonastery is a service organ.  We shall survive by creating inviting rhythms and rituals that allow us to embrace a life of devotion in the face of a crumbling game.  Our medium must be internal human warmth. We seek to build a regime of personal acceptance and confrontation with a generous proportion of collective triumph augmented by sensual feedback.  Through communion with our deepest nature - the dance and most excellent food shall be our currency of conversion.  Our vow of silence may become a vow of non-verbalism.

**Dietary regime **
Restricted as we are to a diet of ultra healthy regional produce, malnutrition cannot be seen as an immediate problem.  However, many novices and supplicants have reported to not own their own bloodstream.  A transitional, rigorous cleansing period of up to two weeks is proposed.  This seems a particular adjustment for those from colder climes who may need to adjust both their sleeping patterns and digestive tracts.

 This chart didn't transpose -- in it is the rationing of wine.  This has been written up by me somewhere.  i'll keep looking.
  
the in-week						
the long walk	matins  = morning practice in italiano	matins		matins	matins	
mandatory massage	work porridge morning meet	wpmm	wpmm	wpmm	wpmm	
in-house work	= cleaning and shopping					
project window						
transitional coffee (loose)						
project window						
daily soup						
silent practice						
project window						
vespers =
evening dance		vespers	vespers		vespers	Bi-Polar Alignment
w/ vespers
dinner (best practice )						
wine ration: 1	1	2	-	-	-	bottle
body + breathwork						
lights out						
						
the out-week 						
	matins	matins	matins		matins	matins
wpmm	wpmm	wpmm	wpmm	wpmm		wpmm
	the out-week pattern resembles in-week except the collective effort to prep the party shall absorb more of our time 			
wine ration: -	-	1	1	2		1
vespers	vespers		vespers	vespers	vespers	The Art of the Party
						



unFamiliar unHeard of  Alternative Cycles - Periodic Regulation
Women who share the same roof often co-ordinate their ovation cycles.  It remains to be seen whether the creative powers of fellow unMonasterians will similarily coordinate to one another and to that of the moon.  While we shall observe the passing of each lunar cycle, our work week shall absorb the administrative rhythm of our host societies.  Life will be organised in cycles two weeks culminating in our legendary thematic open door rites of celebration.


Sleeping regime:
Many of us have grown up sleeping alone in a single room for long periods of time.  To some this is beyond a luxury. A community of Indian social workers once expressed dismay at the Northern practice of giving children their individual room: What have they done wrong? what form of punishment can this be?  Traditionally monasteries achieve a purity of purpose via some form of  sleep deprivation.
While we recognise that certain orders evolved the form of the solitary cell

unCult: hierarchies & knowledge
unCultured      - the unQuisition cleansing commission of visiting rituals 
gravity of
how radical un Mo  lifestyle  - vow of poverty

Master of the Spiritual Kitchen

inevitable conflict > positive stuff    
‘zipper problems‘   


Vi over 60
If examined closely, I am an anomaly in the Edgeryders demographics.  A patient soul, I don’t find this immediately painful. Rather, the neo-anarchist unMonastic quest for spiritual integrity through community service provides a platform of all kinds of irreverent fun.  Besides I’m good at it.


Alberto:
Ben and I have been in a long dialog about tweaking his role.  I am not convinced unAbbott is a useful title for him to bear - the sheer weight of it might capsize his efficient function.  Other candidates include me, doddering around dispensing wisdom but, taking a lead from the monastic practice of Vietnamese Buddhism, we have strategically anointed me Good Master of the Social Kitchens.  (I retain Philosof di Casa as an informal form of address.)  At this point, I still think of you as our unAbbott, perhaps withdrawn unto a life of unPrayer in the bottom of the gardens, but nevertheless irregularly wheeled out for ceremonial purposes.  I am not sure whether you can sidestep such a role.  We certainly shall continue to call upon your spiritual unGuidance; the more you seek distance yourself in the nomenclature, the more unGodly your position becomes.  Having once rejected unSainthood, you have precious little ground left to negotiate before someone says something unPapal, this would be unFortunate indeed.


unVenerably yours,

Tradition reflects.  Often worn smooth by habit, it requires a second glance to recognise the original needs that spurred its development.  Every pagan ritual was devised by very contemporary pagans.


The Stations of the Storytellers ( on blog )
 Heaven forbid that we have Our First unMiracle.  Theatre works in mysterious ways:  it takes but the simplest of human ingredients (including the essential factor of the audience’s capacity to be transported), and moments of great beauty can transpire.  We did it.   Just barely.

At the event of the 3rd Edgeryder gathering: Living on the Edge, we were doing exactly that.  Perched, as we were, in the last of the clusters of abandoned peasant and artisan cave dwellings before the stone Sassi quarters of the town of Matera are swallowed by the ravine, all roads lead to us.  Along the steep paths up to the city above, are to be found many an exquisite backdrop.  The call went out.  Ramona answered. Could we locate 10-15 local residents to re-inhabit their traditional residences and provide two minute anecdotes from their family history to what ever passersby we could manage to drum up?  Recruitment works best one on one.  In the end we had a bare minimum.  In the end the unMo community didn’t consider themselves sufficiently alerted to the power latent in the culture stuff.  In the end it was exceptionally charming and potent.  This highly replicable ultra-human ritual of recounting the stories from the lives of our ancestors has now been placed in the loving hands of local culture workers.  With a small amount (2 years?) considered nurturing from the unMo, (as say the endzone party location) it should take root in the fertile soil of the community imagination.  It is highly possible that our ritual archeologist team have unearthed our first forgotten tradition.