====== The unCode ======



The XVI Century social organs that erected these monuments reflected a spiritual currency.  At the top, the ecclesiastical aristocrats who dispersed it commissioned frescos left, right and centre; beneath them slaved the waves of worker nuns and monks who kept the operation churning.  Responsible for maintaining an atmosphere of religious fever and aided by generous amounts of sleep deprivation and chronic sonorous head vibration induced by all that chanting, they staggered about in sufficient perpetual euphoric rapture to keep the entire community convinced of their do-gooding.

Our version of the unHolier than thou, while it must seek this rapture, cannot afford to take shortcuts.


The unCode
(- an appendix to the B of M ?)

We cannot have unRule for quite obvious reasons; things would rapidly become unRuly.  For slightly less obvious reasons it is also difficult to have Rule.  The emotional modus of living in the unMonastery is somewhat more complex than humbly subjecting oneself to wiser ways.  For the modern human to willingly undercast themselves a hierarchy is generally considered a symptom of a personality disorder.  The last 200 years of European history have declared that we are all ‘individuals’ with equal rights to determine our place on this glorious earth.  We no longer do:  tribe, clan, social strata, our humble station or perhaps even family.

According to some readings of the traditional monastic movement, the monastic gates took aboard political refugees and societal outcasts for refurbishing -- no questions asked ?  This seems highly unlikely.  More plausibly, the questions were few, simple, direct and uncompromising: //Are you willing to unFlinchingly follow the ways of the brotherhood?//  It is easy to imagine that the answer was a silent nod of an already lowered head - this accompanied by the clatter of surrendering all ones personal belongings.

As Francesco of Imaginateca asked as he wrestled with accepting his membership into the first unMonastery cull: //What kind of people can so drop their life as to enroll themselves in an undefined community of unknowns?//  Internally, we debated this ‘brave experiment’ as strategic unemployment.  Externally, what is being politely suggested is blithely ignored by the core practitioners.


There will always be a //social pedagogical// component to our unMonastery work -- since we don’t have several centuries of practice to point the way, if we are even to approach becoming a //‘We’//, we needs must retrain ourselves.   Our structural adjustment devices weren’t many: sleeping in dormitories and celebrating collective mealtimes could round off some of our edges.  Initially, we spent considerable time in meetings learning to locate one another on the map.  Planing in concert seemed a conscious way of building a unity of purpose.  Not everything was attended to.

The need to polish each other up became so evident that it was easily avoided. We weren’t here to systematically build an ideal society, we would rather adapt to one another as strictly necessary.  Demands that suggested how we should interact were not to be decreed from above, but to be absorbed from our experience.  That we predicated the merit of our work to be measurable by our service component was meant to forestall naval gazing; impulses to indulge in collective introspection were from time to time shot down.  Our capacity to cherish one another was stimulated by our various degrees of beautifulness, but lacking a social mandate code to pursue such things, we couldn’t process this into realms of ecstasy..


The element of consciously cultivating ‘We code’ was too dangerous and too subject to sabotage.  One voice could scupper any proposal.  Because everything in a prototype is a proposal, long term survival of the ideas wasn’t an issue, everything was expendable.  As long as we were reasonably convinced that we were Living on the Edge we could be content as laboratory rats.